Add SD-JWT VC Profile (#115)
openid/OpenID4VP: openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

`biJd`
 * Contents:
`["2GLC42sKQveCfGfryNRN9w", "given_name", "John"]`

__Claim `family_name`__:

 * SHA-256 Hash: `TGf4oLbgwd5JQaHyKVQZU9UdGE0w5rtDsrZzfUaomLo`
 * Disclosure:\
`WyJlbHVWNU9nM2dTTklJOEVZbnN4QV9BIiwgImZhbWlseV9uYW1lIiwgIkRv`\
`ZSJd`
 * Contents:
`["eluV5Og3gSNII8EYnsxA_A", "family_name", "Doe"]`

__Claim `birthdate`__:

 * SHA-256 Hash: `tiTngp9_jhC389UP8_k67MXqoSfiHq3iK6o9un4we_Y`
 * Disclosure:\
`WyI2SWo3dE0tYTVpVlBHYm9TNXRtdlZBIiwgImJpcnRoZGF0ZSIsICIxOTQw`\
`LTAxLTAxIl0`
 * Contents:
`["6Ij7tM-a5iVPGboS5tmvVA", "birthdate", "1940-01-01"]`

### Verifier Metadata

The Verifier SHOULD add a `vp_formats` element to its metadata (e.g. in the `client_metadata` authorization request parameter) to let the wallet know what protection algorithms it supports in conjunction with SD-JWT VCs. The format element MUST have the key `vc+sd-jwt`, the value is an object consisting of the following elements:

* `sd-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

> * `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer: per the comment above (https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/115/files#r1501877810), I think we should use `alg` parameter defined by PE and have two separate objects for `kb+jwt` and `vc+sd-jwt`.

The following is a non-normative example of `client_metadata` request parameter value in a request to present a SD-JWT VC.

<{{examples/client_metadata/sd_jwt_vc_verifier_metadata.json}}

> 

Reviewer: please see the comment above: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/115/files#r1501877810

Reviewer 2: resolving as per discussion on Tuesday's WG call

### Presentation Request

The following is a non-normative example of an Authorization Request:

> <{{examples/request/request.txt}}

Reviewer 3: The data (e.g., nonce, client_id) in this request doesn't align with the data in the respective response/vp_token examples. The examples are non-normative, of course, but they should be reasonably correct. Especially because much of that isn't explicitly defined in text so one has to infer from examples and text elsewhere. 

Related, shouldn't a credential profile explicitly define credential profile specific things? For example, I would have expected to see something saying the nonce and aud in the KB-JWT have to be the nonce and client_id values from the authz request.

Reviewer 4: ...and while discussing this with @bc-pi I noticed that `client_id_scheme` needs to be in the KB-JWT as well and actually in a lot of other places: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/issues/124

Author: I have updated nonce and aud values of the kb-jwt to those of the request. The payload looks now as follows

```
{
  "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
  "aud": "https://client.example.org/cb",
  "iat": 1709839446,
  "sd_hash": "d-m8CkhGgx0KgSgNJvK5mR58GTR2hjhaHbBifUaPhKc"
}
```

I've also added a note in the spec to further clarify values of `aud` and `nonce`.

Reviewer 3: > I am wondering if it is worth adding some clarification for sd_hash as well? 

Don't think that's needed here. sd_hash is fully specified in SD-JWT itself whereas the values for aud and nonce need to be specified by the protocol using  SD-JWT.

`LTAxLTAxIl0`
 * Contents:
`["6Ij7tM-a5iVPGboS5tmvVA", "birthdate", "1940-01-01"]`

### Verifier Metadata

The Verifier SHOULD add a `vp_formats` element to its metadata (e.g. in the `client_metadata` authorization request parameter) to let the wallet know what protection algorithms it supports in conjunction with SD-JWT VCs. The format element MUST have the key `vc+sd-jwt`, the value is an object consisting of the following elements:

* `sd-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
* `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

The following is a non-normative example of `client_metadata` request parameter value in a request to present a SD-JWT VC.

<{{examples/client_metadata/sd_jwt_vc_verifier_metadata.json}}

> ### Presentation Request

Reviewer 5: Although obvious but what is missing is that the JSON document for the JSONPath in the `input_descriptor` is the "Unsecured SD-JWT VC".

Reviewer 5: Could you please include one sentence that describes this.

Reviewer: I don't understand your point.

Reviewer 5: The Issuer-Signed JWT has the _sd claims in it. You won't be able to run a JSONPath on it. You would need to use the "Unsecured SD-JWT VC" payload instead. This is the term we use in SD-JWT VC.

The following is a non-normative example of an Authorization Request:

<{{examples/request/request.txt}}

The following is a non-normative example of the contents of a presentation_definition parameter that contains the requirements regarding the Credential to be presented:

<{{examples/request/pd_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

> The presentation of a SD-JWT VC is requested by adding an object named `vc+sd-jwt` to the `format` object of an `input_descriptor`. The object is empty.

Reviewer 5: Why is the `vc+sd-jwt` parameter always empty?

Reviewer: yeah, shouldn't be always empty.

```suggestion
The presentation of a SD-JWT VC is requested by adding an object named `vc+sd-jwt` to the `format` object of an `input_descriptor`.
```

Author: This was also taken from HAIP. 
If not empty, what type of information can be put in here?

Reviewer: basically this
```
"sd-jwt_alg_values": ["ES256", "ES384"],
"kb-jwt_alg_values": ["ES256", "ES384"]
```

Setting `limit_disclosure` property defined in [@!DIF.PresentationExchange] to `required` enables selective release by instructing the Wallet to submit only the disclosures for the claims specified in the fields array.

### Presentation Response

A non-normative example of the Authorization Response would look the same as in the examples of other Credential formats in this Annex.

The following is a non-normative example of the content of the `presentation_submission` parameter:

<{{examples/response/ps_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

The following is a non-normative example of the `vp_token` parameter provided in the same response and referred to by the `presentation_submission` above:

<{{examples/response/token_response_vp_token_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

In this example the `vp_token` contains only the disclosures for the claims specified in the `presentation_submission`, along with a Key Binding JWT.

> Note: The Key Binding JWT `nonce` claim contains the value of the `nonce` from the presentation request, and the `aud` claim contains the Client Identifier of the Verifier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note: The Key Binding JWT `nonce` claim contains the value of the `nonce` from the authorization request, and the `aud` claim contains the Client Identifier of the Verifier.
```

The example in this section is also applicable to the electronic identification Verifiable Credentials expressed using data models defined in ISO/IEC TR 23220-2.

## IETF SD-JWT VC

This section defines how Credentials complying with [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] can be presented to the Verifier using this specification.

### Format Identifier

The Credential format identifier is `vc+sd-jwt`.

#### Example Credential

The following is a non-normative example of the unsecured payload of an IETF SD-JWT VC that will be used throughout this section:

<{{examples/credentials/sd_jwt_vc_unsecured.json}}

> The following is a non-normative example of an IETF SD-JWT VC using the unsecured payload above, containing claims that are selectively disclosable.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of an Issuer-Signed JWT of an IETF SD-JWT VC using the unsecured payload above, containing claims that are selectively disclosable.
```

Author: This suggestion introduces a tautology imho as a VC (Verifiable Credential) is already defined as

> An Issuer-signed Credential whose authenticity can be cryptographically verified.

Reviewer 6: I was trying to differentiate between SD-jwt, disclosures and KB-jwt. The terminology is hard here

Reviewer 3: agree the terminology is hard but think `IETF SD-JWT VC` works here

<{{examples/credentials/sd_jwt_vc.json}}

The following are disclosures belonging to the claims from the example above.

__Claim `given_name`__:

 * SHA-256 Hash: `jsu9yVulwQQlhFlM_3JlzMaSFzglhQG0DpfayQwLUK4`
 * Disclosure:\
`WyIyR0xDNDJzS1F2ZUNmR2ZyeU5STjl3IiwgImdpdmVuX25hbWUiLCAiSm9o`\
`biJd`
 * Contents:
`["2GLC42sKQveCfGfryNRN9w", "given_name", "John"]`

__Claim `family_name`__:

 * SHA-256 Hash: `TGf4oLbgwd5JQaHyKVQZU9UdGE0w5rtDsrZzfUaomLo`
 * Disclosure:\
`WyJlbHVWNU9nM2dTTklJOEVZbnN4QV9BIiwgImZhbWlseV9uYW1lIiwgIkRv`\
`ZSJd`
 * Contents:
`["eluV5Og3gSNII8EYnsxA_A", "family_name", "Doe"]`

__Claim `birthdate`__:

 * SHA-256 Hash: `tiTngp9_jhC389UP8_k67MXqoSfiHq3iK6o9un4we_Y`
 * Disclosure:\
`WyI2SWo3dE0tYTVpVlBHYm9TNXRtdlZBIiwgImJpcnRoZGF0ZSIsICIxOTQw`\
`LTAxLTAxIl0`
 * Contents:
`["6Ij7tM-a5iVPGboS5tmvVA", "birthdate", "1940-01-01"]`

### Verifier Metadata

> The Verifier SHOULD add a `vp_formats` element to its metadata (e.g. in the `client_metadata` authorization request parameter) to let the wallet know what signing algorithms it supports in conjunction with IETF SD-JWT VCs. The format element MUST have the key `vc+sd-jwt`, the value is an object consisting of the following elements:

Reviewer 5: Keep in mind that `vp_formats` is REQUIRED in Verifier metadata.

```suggestion
The `format` value in the `vp_formats` parameter of the Verifier metadata MUST have the key `vc+sd-jwt`, and the value is an object consisting of the following name/value pairs:
```

> The Verifier SHOULD add a `vp_formats` element to its metadata (e.g. in the `client_metadata` authorization request parameter) to let the wallet know what protection algorithms it supports in conjunction with IETF SD-JWT VCs. The format element MUST have the key `vc+sd-jwt`, the value is an object consisting of the following elements:

Reviewer 7: If we change this, then we should also adjust lines 1605+1606

> The Verifier SHOULD add a `vp_formats` element to its metadata (e.g. in the `client_metadata` authorization request parameter) to let the wallet know what protection algorithms it supports in conjunction with IETF SD-JWT VCs. The format element MUST have the key `vc+sd-jwt`, the value is an object consisting of the following elements:

Reviewer: made suggestion.

> * `sd-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for signing of a SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* `sd-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the Verifier supports for signing of an Issuer-signed JWT of an SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the Issuer-signed JWT of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
```

Author: I can see where you are coming from, but when defining it like that the `sd-jwt_alg_values` key as a result makes less sense. Why isn't that then called `issuer-jwt_alg_values`. I really believe that instead of just being able to use SD-JWT, we would now every time need to say which part. "Issuer-signed JWT of an SD-JWT, Key Binding JWT of an SD-JWT, etc).

From the core SD-JWT specification 

> An SD-JWT, at its core, is a digitally signed JSON document containing digests over the selectively disclosable claims with the Disclosures outside the document

it should be clear that when using the term SD-JWT, we mean the Issuer-signed JWT.

Reviewer 5: I'm actually fine with this as long it is consistent.

> * `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for signing of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the Verifier supports for signing of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
```

> * `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the Verifier supports for signing of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Author: ```suggestion
* `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the Verifier supports for signing of a Key Binding JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented Key Binding JWT MUST match one of the array values.
```

> * `sd-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
> * `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sd-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for signing of a SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
* `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for signing of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
```

The following is a non-normative example of `client_metadata` request parameter value in a request to present an IETF SD-JWT VC.

<{{examples/client_metadata/sd_jwt_vc_verifier_metadata.json}}

### Presentation Request

The following is a non-normative example of an Authorization Request:

<{{examples/request/request.txt}}

> The following is a non-normative example of the contents of a presentation_definition parameter that contains the requirements regarding the Credential to be presented:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of the contents of a `presentation_definition` parameter that contains the requirements regarding the Credential to be presented:
```

<{{examples/request/pd_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

> The presentation of an IETF SD-JWT VC is requested by adding an object named `vc+sd-jwt` to the `format` object of an `input_descriptor`.

Reviewer 5: I was missing some text that tells the reader where to apply the input_descriptor. Something as follows:

```suggestion
The presentation of an IETF SD-JWT VC is requested by adding an object named `vc+sd-jwt` to the `format` object of an `input_descriptor`. The `input_descriptor` value is applied to the unsecured payload of the IETF SD-JWT VC which correspond to the disclosures of the presented SD-JWT VC.
```
